In this lesson we're going to see how to
use a data structure such as a list as a
field in a class which will give us a lot
of flexibility in what kind of classes we
can create.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
create a student class.
So we're gonna class this program
student.py.
So we started off with class student.
And a colon.
Then thinking about what we're going to
keep track of for fields.
Our fields are going to be the student
name, the student I-D, and their grades.
Let's say we'll just say grades for the
courses that they're taking.
We're going to keep it simple, so it's not
a real world example.
So we want the grades to be stored as a
list.
So, following our instructions from before
in previous lessons, the first
thing we're going to do is create our nit
method, our
constructor, and so we had no problem with
name and ID, but
it's not really obvious how to create a
parameter for grades.
Well, it turns out we don't really have
to.
What we can do instead is, we can go ahead
and
create a field, and assign it a value
outside of the constructor.
And here, we're just saying that the
constructor does
not have any part in initializing the
grades field.
But every time we create a new student
object,
it's going to automatically have an empty
list called grades.
So here we'll just initialize name and ID.
And that's all we'll have to do.
So the next thing we want to do is write a
method to add a grade to the list.
So we'll call that method addGrade.
The parameters are, as usual, self and
grade.
And here we'll say self dot grades dot
append grade.
And that will add the grade to the list of
grades.
The next thing we'll want to do is have a
means for displaying the grades.
So we'll call this method showGrades and
it will have no parameters other than
self.
Then what we're gonna do is we're gonna
create an empty string.
Then we're gonna loop through the grades
list
and assign each grade to the string like
so.
And then when we're done.
We return grades, or grds.
Not the actual field grades.
Now I've left of lots of things that we
could
do like a 2 string method, and some other
methods.
I'm going to save that for the exercises.
In the second exercise, we'll add to this
class and make it a more complete
definition.
But for now I wanna demonstrate how what
we've implemented works.
So we'll create a new student object.
We'll just use last names to keep it
simple.
And a very simple ID.
And that's all we need to create a new
instance named stu1.
Then we'll add a few grades to stu1 in
'88.
84 and 91.
Now at this point, I'd like to see what
the grades are for student one, so I'm
going to do a print, stu one, show grades,
just like that.
Just
going to save it.
Go back to our command prompt window.
Type student.py and there's the grade see,
see the only problem that we have is that
they are all bunched together so what we
could do is right here add a space.
Let's try again.
Much better.
So, in the exercises, we'll modify this
class in several ways.
We'll add a two string method, we'll write
an average method, so that
we can average the grades, and any other
things that we can think of.
But for this lesson, I just want to
isolate how to
use a data structure, such as a list, as a
field.
And now you see how to do that.
It's really quite simple.
It just seems complex when you're thinking
about it abstractly, but once you get
down to the implementation, it's pretty
much just what you expect it to be.
So with that, that wraps up this lesson
and we're
ready to move on to the first exercise of
the chapter.